MODEM HELP last update 09/28/83

[Want help on (D)ir function
The modem (D)ir function lists the directory, showing you which files
are available for the (T)ype or modem (S)end command.

The filename may be:
  - blank (just press return) to list all names
  - filename.filetype to list a specific file.
    In this case, * and ? are allowed, like in CP/M, i.e. 
	*.TXT
	*.a?m

Like ALL CBBS commands, you can combine the (D)ir command and filename
on one line: D;*.TXT or D;; - the ";;" meaning a null (C/R only) entry.

You can press K to abort the directory listing at any time, and return
to the main modem menu.

The (U)ser command MAY let you access additional disk areas.
]
[Want help on the (T)ype command
The T command lets you type a file.  You will be asked for the name to
type.  Use (D)ir to find the name.  You must specify a specific
filename, i.e. you may NOT specify the name to type by using * or ? in
the filename.

While it types, pressing S (or control-S) will suspend CBBS sending you
the file.  Press S or control-S (or Q or control-Q) to continue without
losing a character.  If you have a simple program to capture data to
disk or to print it, you could take advantage of this to keep CBBS from
overrunning your buffer, disk, or printer.

[Want help on some of the more "obscure" features of (T)ype
The first is the ability to start the typing at a particular character
string.  When asked for a filename to type, enter the name, a comma, and
the string to search for.  The file typing will begin immediately
FOLLOWING the matching of the string.

If you press return after it starts typing, CBBS will scan for the NEXT
occurrence of the specified character string.  Pressing C or K will
abort the typing.

The second is that pressing ^X will skip ten lines while a file is
typing. 
]
]
[Want help on the (S)end and (R)eceive functions
S and R are capable of sending or receiving a single file, using the
"Christensen protocol", a block oriented protocol with timeouts,
retransmission, etc., first released in CPMUG volume 8, and since then
in many forms as MODEMxxx, or MDMxxx, and in commercial products such as
MITE, under the term "XMODEM" protocol, named after one variation used
on remote CP/M systems.  NOTE that the newer features of multi-file and
CRC are NOT supported.

You will be asked for a filename, and must give a specific name (no * or
? allowed).

CBBS scans the incoming data for the control character control-X.  If
you wish to abort the transmission, press ^X slowly three times.  There
is no conflict with data, since CBBS looks for ^X only as control
characters BETWEEN blocks.

You can short-hand the command: s;sample.txt   or  r;newprint.dat

On occasion, the disk will be "read only", i.e. you can (S)end a file to
yourself, but not ask CBBS to (R)eceive one from you.

]
[Want help on the (U)ser command
The U command MAY allow you to select a different user partition on the
disk which is accessed by the (D)ir, (S)end, (R)eceive, and (T)ype
commands.  CBBS is capable of allowing you access to a RANGE of users,
such as 0, or 0-7, or 3-11, etc.  It is up to operator discretion how
this is implemented.

You can check by typing the U command.  It will tell you the current
user and allowed user range.  "Public access" is generally granted only
to user 0.

The user number selected stays in effect for all subsequent D, R, S, and
T commands.
]

IF THERE IS ANYTHING YOU DIDN'T UNDERSTAND, be sure to leave a comment
when you (G)o so it may be cleared up in the future.  Reference "Modem
help" in your comment.  Thanks.
